0.13: Add Dynamic Queries section (#895)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2024-02-03-bevy-0.13/index.md

## Dynamic queries

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @james-j-obrien, @jakobhellermann, @Suficio</div>

> In bevy ECS, queries use a type DSL. The full type of the query — meaning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Bevy's ECS, queries use a type-powered DSL. The full type of the query — meaning:
```

what component to access, which filter to use — must be specified at compile time.

> Sometimes, we don't know what the query accesses at compile time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, we can't easily know what data the query wants to access at compile time.
```

A UI with a dynamic list filtering by component, bindings for a scripting language,
_entity relationships_ (more on this later), all of those, are impossible to accomplish without
creating queries at runtime.

They are now possible thanks to dynamic queries.

The standard way of defining a `Query` is by using them as system parameters:

```rust

> fn take_damange(mut player_health: Query<(Entity, &mut Health), With<Player>>) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fn take_damage(mut player_health: Query<(Entity, &mut Health), With<Player>>) {
```
Small typo here

) -> Option<()> {
    let name = user_query.split(' ').next()?;
    let type_id = type_registry.get_with_short_type_path(name)?.type_id();
    let component_id = world.components().get_id(type_id)?;

    let query = QueryBuilder::<FilteredEntityRef>::new(&mut world)
        .ref_id(component_id)
        .build();

    for entity_ref in query.iter(world) {
        let ptr = entity_ref.get_by_id(component_id);
        // Convert `ptr` into a `&dyn Reflect` and use it.
    }
    Some(())
}
```

It is still an error-prone, complex, and unsafe API, but it makes something that was previously
impossible now possible. There are more ways of using `QueryBuilder`, check out
[The dynamic query pull request] for a detailed breakdown of the API.

[`QueryBuilder`] is here for people who need queries with runtime access specification,
maybe you need to:

* Add a runtime filter to [`bevy-inspector-egui`]'s entity inspector.
* Define queries in a scripting language such as Lua or JavaScript.
* Define new components from a scripting language and query them.
* Add a [Quake-style console] to modify or query components from a prompt at runtime.
* Create an [editor with remote capabilities].

> * And those are only what people came up with _before_ the 0.13 release!

Author: This might mislead people into believing there is an existing scripting API built on top of dynamic query. But I'm not sure if it is so, or how to rephrase in order to not raise this expectation.

Reviewer 3: "And these are only the ideas we've heard so far!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* And these are only the plans we've heard about so far!
```

> We expect third party crates to provide convenient wrappers around the `QueryBuilder` API.

Reviewer: This sentence could be probably be better integrated into the start of the paragraph above.
